---
title: "Rust 2020: Refinement"
date: 2019-10-30T12:37:45-04:00
draft: true
---

I'm not part of the Rust core dev team, or any Rust dev team. But, I have been using the language since just before Rust 1.0, so I've seen and followed the development of Rust for a number of years.

The main question that [call for blogs 2020](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2019/10/29/A-call-for-blogs-2020.html) aims to answer is (and I'm paraphrasing) "what should the development of Rust look like for the next year?"

## Language

I don't think that we should bring any _brand_ new ideas into the language for the next year. That's not to say that I don't think we shouldn't add new features, just that they have to be based on things that refine existing workflows or enable more expressiveness that we had lacked.

As for language features that I'd like to see:

- [GATs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/1598-generic_associated_types.md)
- [const generics](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/blob/master/text/2000-const-generics.md)

You may argue that these features aren't refinements, but I think that they are. They allow Rust's type syntax to be used in more places by making it more flexible and expressible. It's something that I often expected to work and was surprised when it didn't. Const generics does the same for `const`, it expands the `const` language and makes the type system more expressive. Additionally, these are RFCs that have been around for years and are blockers for certain workflows in the language today. Async in traits and streaming iterators come to mind for GATs.

## Ecosystem

I'd like us first and foremost to start stabilizing the async ecosystem. It's been a few years of incredible flux, but with stabilisation of async/await we now have some world-class solutions to these problems. Lets focus on stability and incremental improvements here.

I'd like to see more focus on embedded, as I think this is a place that Rust has a great value proposition and could really take off. The [Discovery](https://docs.rust-embedded.org/discovery/index.html) book is a great start, I'd like to see more things like it. Our solution for wasm is probably the nicest out there, so lets keep the lead and continue pushing in that direction.

## Tooling

The interaction of `rustup`, `RLS`, `cargo`, `clippy`, and related tools is some of my favorite of any language. It's a real joy to work with. I think steady, incremental improvements should be the goal here. We've got a great story for a lot of these tools; lets improve them without any radical changes.
